README.md, before:

# Wordle Solver

Code to generate optimal guesses for the [Wordle](https://www.powerlanguage.co.uk/wordle/) puzzle game.
The game asks the player to guess a hidden word by making repeated, one-word guesses and then incorporating feedback.

Uses a word-list (currently from the wordle source code) and finds the guesses that maximize the entropy of the hidden word distribution.

## Performance
![Guess distribution](./test/guess_distribution.svg)

### Efficiency
Pursuing a maximum-entropy strategy is boring, but reliable!
The app never takes more than 5 guesses to find the Wordle.
In a rare few cases it gets it in 2.
But, sadly, it will never achieve the dream of the Wordle hole-in-one.

Also by virtue of this approach we do quite well even against an adversarial opponent like [Absurdle](https://qntm.org/files/wordle/)!
Because of the dynamic approach used there, to get interesting results please try the `custom_start` option in the `Wordler.start` method.
Finding the hidden word in 5 or 6 tries was typical of my Absurdle experience.

### Speed
The precomputed data take a few seconds to load, but finding optimal guesses takes less than a second for these small word-lengths.

## Usage
First, install dependencies into a conda environment (named "wordle_solver")
```
conda env create -f environment.yml
```
and activate the environment.
```
conda activate wordle_solver
```

To use the simple commandline app with the python interpreter, simply:

```
>>> import app
>>> wordler = app.Wordler()
Loading data...
>>> wordler.start()
Guess SOARE (entropy 5.89)
Enter Wordle response for "SOARE" (0=gray, 1=yellow, 2=green):	00000
Guess CLINT (entropy 5.51)
Enter Wordle response for "CLINT" (0=gray, 1=yellow, 2=green):	01102
Choose randomly from "LIGHT" or "LIMIT"
>>>
```

Here's an example with Absurdle:
```
>>> wordler.start(max_guesses=10, custom_start="arise")
Guess ARISE (entropy 5.82)
Enter Wordle response for "ARISE" (0=gray, 1=yellow, 2=green):	00000
Guess MULCH (entropy 5.21)
Enter Wordle response for "MULCH" (0=gray, 1=yellow, 2=green):	00000
Guess GOODY (entropy 3.25)
Enter Wordle response for "GOODY" (0=gray, 1=yellow, 2=green):	02202
Guess BLITZ (entropy 2.00)
Enter Wordle response for "BLITZ" (0=gray, 1=yellow, 2=green):	00001
Choose "WOOZY"
```

See the included `example.py` for an example of guessing the hidden word "crimp" for Absurdle using the backend.

## Acknowledgments
Many thanks to [Josh Wardle](https://powerlanguage.co.uk/), creator of Wordle, and [qntm](https://qntm.org/), creator of Absurdle.

Commit message:

Implmented pip install, precomputation and added suggestions

README.md, after:

# Wordle Solver

Code to generate optimal guesses for the [Wordle](https://www.powerlanguage.co.uk/wordle/) puzzle game.
The game asks the player to guess a hidden word by making repeated, one-word guesses and then incorporating feedback.

Uses a word-list (currently from the wordle source code) and finds the guesses that maximize the entropy of the hidden word distribution.

## Performance
![Guess distribution](./test/guess_distribution.svg)

### Efficiency
Pursuing a maximum-entropy strategy is boring, but reliable!
The app never takes more than 5 guesses to find the Wordle.
In a rare few cases it gets it in 2.
But, sadly, it will never achieve the dream of the Wordle hole-in-one.

Also by virtue of this approach we do quite well even against an adversarial opponent like [Absurdle](https://qntm.org/files/wordle/)!
Because of the dynamic approach used there, to get interesting results please try the `custom_start` option in the `Wordler.start` method.
Finding the hidden word in 5 or 6 tries was typical of my Absurdle experience.

### Speed
Precomputation of data takes about a minute (73 seconds) but only needs to be completed the first run of the application.

The precomputed data take a few seconds to load, but finding optimal guesses takes less than a second for these small word-lengths.

## Usage
First, install dependencies into a conda environment (named "wordle_solver")
```
conda env create -f environment.yml
```
and activate the environment.
```
conda activate wordle_solver
```

# Pip Installation
Install dependencies using pip install -r requirements.txt

To use the simple commandline app with the python interpreter, simply:

```
>>> python3 src/app.py
Checking existance of precompted data...
Loading data...
Guess SOARE (entropy 5.89)
Enter Wordle response for "SOARE" (0=gray, 1=yellow, 2=green):	00000
Guess CLINT (entropy 5.51)
Enter Wordle response for "CLINT" (0=gray, 1=yellow, 2=green):	01102
Choose randomly from "LIGHT" or "LIMIT"
>>>
```

Here's an example with Absurdle:
```
>>> wordler.start(max_guesses=10, custom_start="arise")
Guess ARISE (entropy 5.82)
Enter Wordle response for "ARISE" (0=gray, 1=yellow, 2=green):	00000
Guess MULCH (entropy 5.21)
Enter Wordle response for "MULCH" (0=gray, 1=yellow, 2=green):	00000
Guess GOODY (entropy 3.25)
Enter Wordle response for "GOODY" (0=gray, 1=yellow, 2=green):	02202
Guess BLITZ (entropy 2.00)
Enter Wordle response for "BLITZ" (0=gray, 1=yellow, 2=green):	00001
Choose "WOOZY"
```

See the included `example.py` for an example of guessing the hidden word "crimp" for Absurdle using the backend.

## Acknowledgments
Many thanks to [Josh Wardle](https://powerlanguage.co.uk/), creator of Wordle, and [qntm](https://qntm.org/), creator of Absurdle.

### Changes implemented in PR

Improved calling of the original app

Reorganization of source code into a source folder

Addition of init scripts for ease of importing

Pip installation steps made available 

Addition of the pre-compute step

### Thoughts of next steps

I think we can think of a better search, we currently compute the entropies for 13,000 words when we expect each run to take at most 6. 

Perhaps we could look into using vector notation, each word is 5x1 of base 3 and use a cosine difference to calculate entropy on the fly of our word vs all possible mysteries. Then the result of the guess brings down our solution space iteratively
